1-What is the DataBase?
-A database is  collection of data that is organized.
which we called it structured data. We can set the data into tables with rows (requier), columns(feilds) than when creat the 
table we can make the CRUD opration 

2-what is the SQL ?
- It's stands for structured query language. And we cas access and mainpulate database.
and it's programming language, we cas access the data insdie it  and we use it to create or delete oe insert in the database table.

3- what is the different between Relational and non-relational database?

*Ralational (SQL) DataBase:
1- it is a talbles (rows and columns).
2- fixed schema
3-strong consistency

EX: MySQL , SQL server , PostgreSQL.

*NON-Relational (NoSQL) DataBase:
1- document-based ,  take key-value , wide-colmuns.
2-Schema-less or dynamic schema
3-Eventual consistency.

EX: MongoDB , Redis , Cassandra.

4-what is MySQL and the Features and typical use cases?
The MySQL is open-source relational database management system (RDMS)
RDMS : relational database management system. and it's cross-platform.

the Features :
a- Ralational DataBase management system.
b- Easy to use.
c- client / server architecture.
d- It is scalable.
e- speed or fast.
f- high flexibility.

MySQL (Use Cases):
a- Web Application.
b- CMS.
c- OLAP/OLTP Systems.


5-What is the Data Types in SQL?
thier three main data Types :

1-string : the most common in string :
a- CHAR : a fixed lenght (can right numbers , letters or spiecail characters).
EX : 'CHAR(10)' can store a string with exactly 10 characters.
b- VARCHAR : a variable lenght .
EX : 'VARCHAR'(255) can store a string with a maximum length of 255 characters.
c- TEXT : holds a string It has no limits  likr paragrph.
EX : TINYTEXT, MEDIUMTEXT, and LONGTEXT, each allowing for progressively larger amounts of text.
d- BLOB : can set photo or video . 

2-Numeric : the most common in Numeric :
a- INT : (integer), it is a  numbers  
EX: (1,2,3,4,5);
b- BOOLEAN : (BOOL) if the number zero give you false, if the numbers nozero considered true.
c- FLOAT(P) : p mean number from (0 to 24) the data become FLOAT() but is the number (25 to 53) becomes DOUBLE().

3-date and time : the most common in date and time :
a- DATe : the give date 
EX : (30/1/2002);
b- TIME : give you hours and minutes and seconds .
EX : 10 : 44 : 22.
c- YEAR : give the year in four numbers it's become from (1901 to 2155);
EX : "2019"


6-What is Table Structures ?
a- Primary-keys :  it cac be used to indenfity one 
important element that cannot be repeated and is usually used with the ID , national number , etc.
and is always uniquely indenfied.

b- NULL & NOTNULL :
*NULL : allows to have a null value we use it if no have a value.

*NOTNULL : cannot have a null value mean cannot go out without write data 
you must right .

Ex : (Name , Number).

c- Auto-Increment :
when put the id i use it to counts automatically wehen start from 1 it's will +1 automatically 
and we use it often with Primary-key where need to provide a unique value for every record you add.


7- SQL Command Practice: Write the SQL command to select and use the StudentDB database.?

I HAD CREATE DataBase and  i give it name student than i had create table named teacher than i had write 
command to create table name teacher as colmuns than i had insert a new teacher record into teacher table 
than i use update the name of the teacher of the teacher table with id=1 in the last i had delete the teacher in the table.

///////
CREATE DataBase student;
creat table teacher (
    id INT PEIMARY KEY auto-increment,
    Name VARCHAR (100) NOT NULL , 
    Email VARCHAR (100),
    Enrollment_date DATE
);
inset INTO teacher (
    id , Name , Eamil , Enrollment_date
)
values ( 1 , "AYAh ", "ayahhillawi@gmail.com ", '30/1/2002');

update teacher
set Name = "ayosh"
where id = 1;

delete from teacher where id = 1;